You may also read this page at:
* http://wiki.4intra.net/Mediawiki4Intranet (Russian)
* http://wiki.4intra.net/Mediawiki4Intranet/en (English)

== Mediawiki4Intranet ==

Mediawiki4Intranet is a MediaWiki distribution containing many
extensions and patches useful for intranet (and not only for
intranet) usage. It is also important that mostly all of these
extensions are improved and tested to work together — integration
bugs are fixed and some new features are added.

== System Requirements ==

Minimal requirements:
* PHP 5.2 or later. 5.3 or later is recommended.
* Web server. The simplest is to use Apache, nginx with php_fpm also works, IIS and others are also supported in theory.
* MySQL DBMS version 5 or later.
* UNIX-like system is preferred.

PHP extensions:
* php5-mysql or php5-mysqli for interaction with the database.
* php5-gd for images.
* php5-curl for uploading files via URL.

PHP configuration (php.ini):
* <tt>error_reporting = E_ALL & ~E_NOTICE</tt>
* If your PHP is &lt; 5.3: <tt>short_open_tag = Off</tt>
* <tt>magic_quotes_gpc = Off</tt> (should be Off on every web server which respects itself)
* For [http://supa.sourceforge.net SUPA] screenshot upload: either ''disabled'' [http://www.hardened-php.net/suhosin/ Suhosin], or <tt>suhosin.post.max_value_length = 8000000</tt> and <tt>suhosin.request.max_value_length = 8000000</tt>. 8000000 is an example, you can set a bigger value.

Optional PHP extensions:
* PHP opcode cacher, like APC or XCache for overall performance.
* [http://wiki.4intra.net/Mediawiki4Intranet#php5-fss php5-fss] for faster string operations.
* Mail and Net_SMTP PEAR packages for e-mail.

Many of third-party software is also required for different extensions to work,
but GNU/Linux users may usually 'apt-get' them, and Windows users may use our
standalone bundle (see below).

* PDF: [http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~ghost/ GhostScript], [http://poppler.freedesktop.org/ Poppler] — former [http://www.foolabs.com/xpdf/ Xpdf] ([http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/xpdf.htm windows)]
* DJVU: [http://djvu.sourceforge.net/ djvulibre], [http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/ netpbm] ([http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/netpbm.htm windows]).
* LaTeX (for &lt;m>…&lt;/m>): a TeX distribution, [http://www.tug.org/texlive/debian.html TeXLive] in Debian, usually [http://miktex.org/ MiKTeX] on Windows.
* [http://dvisvgm.sourceforge.net/ dvisvgm] for vector (SVG) display of math formulas.
* [http://www.ffmpeg.org/ ffmpeg] for FLV/MP4-video ([http://ffmpeg.arrozcru.org/wiki/index.php?title=Main_Page windows builds]).
* [http://www.graphviz.org/ Graphviz], preferably 2.27 or later.
* [http://www.gnuplot.info/ GNUPlot].
* [http://www.umlgraph.org/ UMLGraph].
* [http://www.umlet.com/ UMLet].
* [http://java.sun.com Java] for UMLGraph, UMLet, PlantUML.
* Sphinx search: [http://sphinxsearch.com/ Sphinx].
* zip and unzip utilities for importing and exporting file uploads (windows: [http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/zip.htm zip], [http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/unzip.htm unzip])
* Modified [http://wiki.4intra.net/public/tika-app-1.2-fix-TIKA709-TIKA964.jar Apache Tika] (http://tika.apache.org/) for indexing binary file contents.

If you're on Debian or Ubuntu GNU/Linux distribution, simply run:

<pre>
apt-get install php5 php5-mysql php5-gd php5-curl php5-apc php-mail php-net-smtp \
	texlive-base djvulibre-bin netpbm ghostscript poppler-utils \
	ffmpeg graphviz gnuplot openjdk-6-jre sphinxsearch zip unzip umlet
</pre>

After running this apt-get, the only software which must be installed manually will be:
* [http://dvisvgm.sourceforge.net/ dvisvgm]
* [http://www.umlgraph.org/ UMLGraph]
* [http://wiki.4intra.net/php5-fss php5-fss]
* [http://wiki.4intra.net/public/tika-app-1.2-fix-TIKA709-TIKA964.jar Apache Tika]

Downloaded tika-app.jar should be put to system auto-start (for example /etc/rc.local),
with the following arguments:

<pre>
java -jar tika-app-1.2-fix-TIKA709-TIKA964.jar -p 127.0.0.1:8072 -t -eutf-8
</pre>

== Installation ==

First of all, you need to install the software listed in System Requirements.

Then, clone index repository:

<pre>
git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/mediawiki4intranet/configs.git mediawiki/configs
</pre>

Run repo.php to fetch the code with all extensions:

<pre>
php mediawiki/configs/repo.php install mediawiki4intranet
</pre>

Create images subdirectory and grant web-server read-write access into it:

<pre>
mkdir mediawiki/images
chown www-data:www-data mediawiki/images
</pre>

Create an empty MySQL database and user for MediaWiki:

<pre>
mysql -u root -p <<EOF
	CREATE DATABASE mediawiki;
	GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON mediawiki.* TO mediawiki@localhost IDENTIFIED BY 'mediawiki';
	FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
EOF
</pre>

Create minimal mediawiki/LocalSettings.php including predefined configuration:

<pre>
<?php

require_once 'configs/ServerSettings.php'; # use this under UNIX, or BaseSettings.php under Windows

$wgDBname = 'mediawiki'; # database name
$wgDBuser = 'mediawiki'; # login and password for database user
$wgDBpassword = 'mediawiki';
$wgDBadminuser = $wgDBuser;
$wgDBadminpassword = $wgDBpassword;
$wgScriptPath = '/mediawiki';
</pre>

Initialise database:

<pre>
cd mediawiki
php maintenance/patchSql.php maintenance/tables.sql
php maintenance/update.php
</pre>

Optionally configure Sphinx search (careful, do not overwrite your existing config if you have one):

<pre>
cd mediawiki
php configs/maintenance/configure-sphinx.php --localsettings LocalSettings.php
mv sphinx.conf /etc/sphinxsearch
service sphinxsearch restart
cat >> LocalSettings.php <<EOF
	
	require_once "$IP/extensions/SphinxSearchEngine/SphinxSearchEngine.php";
	$wgSphinxQL_index = 'wiki';
EOF
php extensions/SphinxSearchEngine/rebuild-sphinx.php
</pre>

At this point you're done and now have a working Mediawiki4Intranet installation,
with all included extensions and patches.

=== Using read-write clones ===

If you have commit access and want to participate in development, use read-write
installation instead of read-only:

<pre>
git clone https://github.com/mediawiki4intranet/configs.git mediawiki/configs
php mediawiki/configs/repo.php install mediawiki4intranet rw
</pre>

Then develop as usual, and after push'ing to any extension or core, just run
the following inside your 'configs' working copy:
<pre>
php repo.php update
git push
</pre>

'''CAUTION:''' Since recently, repo.php doesn't use different URLs for read-only
and read-write clones. So, to push to github via ssh, use the built-in Git feature:

<pre>
git config --global url.ssh://git@github.com.pushinsteadof https://github.com
</pre>

=== Creating your own bundle ===

To create your own bundle, fork this repository, clone it or switch your
existing 'configs' working copy to it (it '''must''' be '''read-write'''),
and then use the inclusion feature of repo.php:

Create your own 'my-super-bundle.ini' in your 'configs' working copy using
the following template:

<pre>
[_params]
include[] = mediawiki4intranet

;; Optionally add your own repository url prefixes:
;prefix.my-server = git:http://my.site/git/$REPO.git

; And add some extensions like this:
[extensions/MyExtension]
repo = my-server:MyExtension
;; You may override the checked out branch using:
;branch = master

;; Or remove extensions like this:
;[extensions/Wikilog]
;repo =
</pre>

Then run:
<pre>
php repo.php install my-super-bundle rw
git add my-super-bundle.ini my-super-bundle-index.ini
git commit -m "Created a fork of MediaWiki4Intranet bundle with my own extension!"
git push
</pre>

As you already may have noticed, this doesn't change any files or our distribution,
so the resulting repository will be very easy to merge with newer versions of our one.

== Standalone Windows bundle ==

As the simplest way to try Mediawiki4Intranet for Must-Die systems (M$ Window$) we have
a [http://wiki.4intra.net/public/mediawiki4intranet-win.7z standalone bundle] which is
rarely updated and may not include all the latest features, but does include all the
software needed to run Mediawiki4Intranet.

Just download it, unpack to D:\wiki4intranet\, run D:\wiki4intranet\xampp-control.exe,
start Apache and MySQL via clicking "Start" buttons, and point your browser to
http://localhost/wiki/, and login with WikiSysop/Wiki4IntraNet login/password.

It is NOT recommended to use this bundle for production as it IS NOT properly
and securely configured, not to speak of that it runs on a bad operating system
made by bad company with bad policies. :)

Use it only if you want to have Mediawiki4Intranet on your local machine with that OS.

== repo.php TODO ==

MAYBE:
* Setup remotes for additional repositories of the same module (i.e. wikimedia for our forks)
* Support automatic calling maintenance/update.php for DB updates
* Support 'soft update' for the case of added extensions:
** First update configs dir except *Settings.php
** Then update the code, then update *Settings.php so missing extension files do not crash the live site.
*: But maybe it's a bad idea just because updating the live site is a bad idea itself.
